README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny">
  <img width="300" alt="scrutiny_view" src="webapp/frontend/src/assets/images/logo/scrutiny-logo-dark.png">
  </a>
</p>


# scrutiny

[![CI](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/AnalogJ/scrutiny/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/AnalogJ/scrutiny)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/AnalogJ/scrutiny.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Godoc](https://img.shields.io/badge/godoc-reference-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://godoc.org/github.com/analogj/scrutiny)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny?style=flat-square)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny)
[![GitHub release](http://img.shields.io/github/release/AnalogJ/scrutiny.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/releases)

WebUI for smartd S.M.A.R.T monitoring

> NOTE: Scrutiny is a Work-in-Progress and still has some rough edges.

[![](docs/dashboard.png)](https://imgur.com/a/5k8qMzS)

# Introduction

If you run a server with more than a couple of hard drives, you're probably already familiar with S.M.A.R.T and the `smartd` daemon. If not, it's an incredible open source project described as the following:

> smartd is a daemon that monitors the Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (SMART) system built into many ATA, IDE and SCSI-3 hard drives. The purpose of SMART is to monitor the reliability of the hard drive and predict drive failures, and to carry out different types of drive self-tests.

These S.M.A.R.T hard drive self-tests can help you detect and replace failing hard drives before they cause permanent data loss. However, there's a couple issues with `smartd`:

- There are more than a hundred S.M.A.R.T attributes, however `smartd` does not differentiate between critical and informational metrics
- `smartd` does not record S.M.A.R.T attribute history, so it can be hard to determine if an attribute is degrading slowly over time.
- S.M.A.R.T attribute thresholds are set by the manufacturer. In some cases these thresholds are unset, or are so high that they can only be used to confirm a failed drive, rather than detecting a drive about to fail.
- `smartd` is a command line only tool. For head-less servers a web UI would be more valuable.

**Scrutiny is a Hard Drive Health Dashboard & Monitoring solution, merging manufacturer provided S.M.A.R.T metrics with real-world failure rates.**

# Features

Scrutiny is a simple but focused application, with a couple of core features:

- Web UI Dashboard - focused on Critical metrics
- `smartd` integration (no re-inventing the wheel)
- Auto-detection of all connected hard-drives
- S.M.A.R.T metric tracking for historical trends
- Customized thresholds using real world failure rates
- Temperature tracking
- Provided as an all-in-one Docker image (but can be installed manually)
- Configurable Alerting/Notifications via Webhooks
- (Future) Hard Drive performance testing & tracking

# Getting Started

## RAID/Virtual Drives

Scrutiny uses `smartctl --scan` to detect devices/drives.

- All RAID controllers supported by `smartctl` are automatically supported by Scrutiny.
    - While some RAID controllers support passing through the underlying SMART data to `smartctl` others do not.
    - In some cases `--scan` does not correctly detect the device type, returning [incomplete SMART data](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/45).
    Scrutiny supports overriding detected device type via the config file: see [example.collector.yaml](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/example.collector.yaml)
- If you use docker, you **must** pass though the RAID virtual disk to the container using `--device` (see below)
    - This device may be in `/dev/*` or `/dev/bus/*`.
    - If you're unsure, run `smartctl --scan` on your host, and pass all listed devices to the container.

See [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_DEVICE_COLLECTOR.md](./docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_DEVICE_COLLECTOR.md) for help

## Docker

If you're using Docker, getting started is as simple as running the following command:

> See [docker/example.omnibus.docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/docker/example.omnibus.docker-compose.yml) for a docker-compose file.

```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8086:8086 --restart unless-stopped \
  -v `pwd`/scrutiny:/opt/scrutiny/config \
  -v `pwd`/influxdb2:/opt/scrutiny/influxdb \
  -v /run/udev:/run/udev:ro \
  --cap-add SYS_RAWIO \
  --device=/dev/sda \
  --device=/dev/sdb \
  --name scrutiny \
  ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-omnibus
```

- `/run/udev` is necessary to provide the Scrutiny collector with access to your device metadata
- `--cap-add SYS_RAWIO` is necessary to allow `smartctl` permission to query your device SMART data
    - NOTE: If you have **NVMe** drives, you must add `--cap-add SYS_ADMIN` as well. See issue [#26](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/26#issuecomment-696817130)
- `--device` entries are required to ensure that your hard disk devices are accessible within the container.
- `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-omnibus` is a omnibus image, containing both the webapp server (frontend & api) as well as the S.M.A.R.T metric collector. (see below)

### Hub/Spoke Deployment

In addition to the Omnibus image (available under the `latest` tag) you can deploy in Hub/Spoke mode, which requires 3
other Docker images:

- `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-collector` - Contains the Scrutiny data collector, `smartctl` binary and cron-like
  scheduler. You can run one collector on each server.
- `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-web` - Contains the Web UI and API. Only one container necessary
- `influxdb:2.2` - InfluxDB image, used by the Web container to persist SMART data. Only one container necessary
  See [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_INFLUXDB.md](./docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_INFLUXDB.md)

> See [docker/example.hubspoke.docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/docker/example.hubspoke.docker-compose.yml) for a docker-compose file.

```bash
docker run -p 8086:8086 --restart unless-stopped \
  -v `pwd`/influxdb2:/var/lib/influxdb2 \
  --name scrutiny-influxdb \
  influxdb:2.2

docker run -p 8080:8080 --restart unless-stopped \
  -v `pwd`/scrutiny:/opt/scrutiny/config \
  --name scrutiny-web \
  ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-web

docker run --restart unless-stopped \
  -v /run/udev:/run/udev:ro \
  --cap-add SYS_RAWIO \
  --device=/dev/sda \
  --device=/dev/sdb \
  -e COLLECTOR_API_ENDPOINT=http://SCRUTINY_WEB_IPADDRESS:8080 \
  --name scrutiny-collector \
  ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-collector
```

## Manual Installation (without-Docker)

While the easiest way to get started with [Scrutiny is using Docker](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny#docker),
it is possible to run it manually without much work. You can even mix and match, using Docker for one component and
a manual installation for the other.

See [docs/INSTALL_MANUAL.md](docs/INSTALL_MANUAL.md) for instructions.

## Usage

Once scrutiny is running, you can open your browser to `http://localhost:8080` and take a look at the dashboard.

If you're using the omnibus image, the collector should already have run, and your dashboard should be populate with every
drive that Scrutiny detected. The collector is configured to run once a day, but you can trigger it manually by running the command below.

For users of the docker Hub/Spoke deployment or manual install: initially the dashboard will be empty.
After the first collector run, you'll be greeted with a list of all your hard drives and their current smart status.

```bash
docker exec scrutiny /opt/scrutiny/bin/scrutiny-collector-metrics run
```

# Configuration
By default Scrutiny looks for its YAML configuration files in `/opt/scrutiny/config`

There are two configuration files available:

- Webapp/API config via `scrutiny.yaml` - [example.scrutiny.yaml](example.scrutiny.yaml).
- Collector config via `collector.yaml` - [example.collector.yaml](example.collector.yaml).

Neither file is required, however if provided, it allows you to configure how Scrutiny functions.

## Cron Schedule
Unfortunately the Cron schedule cannot be configured via the `collector.yaml` (as the collector binary needs to be trigged by a scheduler/cron).
However, if you are using the official `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-collector` or `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:master-omnibus` docker images,
you can use the `COLLECTOR_CRON_SCHEDULE` environmental variable to override the default cron schedule (daily @ midnight - `0 0 * * *`).

`docker run -e COLLECTOR_CRON_SCHEDULE="0 0 * * *" ...`

## Notifications

Scrutiny supports sending SMART device failure notifications via the following services:
- Custom Script (data provided via environmental variables)
- Email
- Webhooks
- Discord
- Gotify
- Hangouts
- IFTTT
- Join
- Mattermost
- ntfy
- Pushbullet
- Pushover
- Slack
- Teams
- Telegram
- Tulip

Check the `notify.urls` section of [example.scrutiny.yml](example.scrutiny.yaml) for examples.

For more information and troubleshooting, see the [TROUBLESHOOTING_NOTIFICATIONS.md](./docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_NOTIFICATIONS.md) file

### Testing Notifications

You can test that your notifications are configured correctly by posting an empty payload to the notifications health check API.

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/health/notify
```

# Debug mode & Log Files
Scrutiny provides various methods to change the log level to debug and generate log files.

## Web Server/API

You can use environmental variables to enable debug logging and/or log files for the web server:

```bash
DEBUG=true
SCRUTINY_LOG_FILE=/tmp/web.log
```

You can configure the log level and log file in the config file:

```yml
log:
  file: '/tmp/web.log'
  level: DEBUG
```

Or if you're not using docker, you can pass CLI arguments to the web server during startup:

```bash
scrutiny start --debug --log-file /tmp/web.log
```

## Collector

You can use environmental variables to enable debug logging and/or log files for the collector:

```bash
DEBUG=true
COLLECTOR_LOG_FILE=/tmp/collector.log
```

Or if you're not using docker, you can pass CLI arguments to the collector during startup:

```bash
scrutiny-collector-metrics run --debug --log-file /tmp/collector.log
```

# Supported Architectures

| Architecture Name | Binaries | Docker |
| --- | --- | --- |
| linux-amd64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| linux-arm-5 | :white_check_mark: |  |
| linux-arm-6 | :white_check_mark: |  |
| linux-arm-7 | :white_check_mark: | web/collector only. see [#236](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/236)  |
| linux-arm64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| freebsd-amd64 | :white_check_mark: |  |
| macos-amd64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| macos-arm64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| windows-amd64 | :white_check_mark: | WIP, see [#15](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/15) |
| windows-arm64 | :white_check_mark: |  |


# Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for instructions for how to develop and contribute to the scrutiny codebase.

Work your magic and then submit a pull request. We love pull requests!

If you find the documentation lacking, help us out and update this README.md. If you don't have the time to work on Scrutiny, but found something we should know about, please submit an issue.

# Versioning

We use SemVer for versioning. For the versions available, see the tags on this repository.

# Authors

* Jason Kulatunga - Initial Development - [@AnalogJ](https://github.com/AnalogJ/)
* Aram Akhavan - Maintenence - [@kaysond](https://github.com/kaysond/)

# Licenses

- MIT
- Logo: [Glasses by matias porta lezcano](https://thenounproject.com/term/glasses/775232)

# Sponsors

Scrutiny is only possible with the help of my [Github Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/).

[![](docs/sponsors.png)](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/)

They read a simple [reddit announcement post](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/) and decided to trust & finance
 a developer they've never met. It's an exciting and incredibly humbling experience.

If you found Scrutiny valuable, please consider [supporting my work](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/)

Commit message:

Update docker builds (#901)
Closes #895 #896

* dont build every master commit
* push latest tags with releases
* update docs accordingly
* bump action versions

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny">
  <img width="300" alt="scrutiny_view" src="webapp/frontend/src/assets/images/logo/scrutiny-logo-dark.png">
  </a>
</p>


# scrutiny

[![CI](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/actions?query=workflow%3ACI)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/AnalogJ/scrutiny/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/AnalogJ/scrutiny)
[![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/AnalogJ/scrutiny.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![Godoc](https://img.shields.io/badge/godoc-reference-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://godoc.org/github.com/analogj/scrutiny)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny?style=flat-square)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny)
[![GitHub release](http://img.shields.io/github/release/AnalogJ/scrutiny.svg?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/releases)

WebUI for smartd S.M.A.R.T monitoring

> NOTE: Scrutiny is a Work-in-Progress and still has some rough edges.

[![](docs/dashboard.png)](https://imgur.com/a/5k8qMzS)

# Introduction

If you run a server with more than a couple of hard drives, you're probably already familiar with S.M.A.R.T and the `smartd` daemon. If not, it's an incredible open source project described as the following:

> smartd is a daemon that monitors the Self-Monitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (SMART) system built into many ATA, IDE and SCSI-3 hard drives. The purpose of SMART is to monitor the reliability of the hard drive and predict drive failures, and to carry out different types of drive self-tests.

These S.M.A.R.T hard drive self-tests can help you detect and replace failing hard drives before they cause permanent data loss. However, there's a couple issues with `smartd`:

- There are more than a hundred S.M.A.R.T attributes, however `smartd` does not differentiate between critical and informational metrics
- `smartd` does not record S.M.A.R.T attribute history, so it can be hard to determine if an attribute is degrading slowly over time.
- S.M.A.R.T attribute thresholds are set by the manufacturer. In some cases these thresholds are unset, or are so high that they can only be used to confirm a failed drive, rather than detecting a drive about to fail.
- `smartd` is a command line only tool. For head-less servers a web UI would be more valuable.

**Scrutiny is a Hard Drive Health Dashboard & Monitoring solution, merging manufacturer provided S.M.A.R.T metrics with real-world failure rates.**

# Features

Scrutiny is a simple but focused application, with a couple of core features:

- Web UI Dashboard - focused on Critical metrics
- `smartd` integration (no re-inventing the wheel)
- Auto-detection of all connected hard-drives
- S.M.A.R.T metric tracking for historical trends
- Customized thresholds using real world failure rates
- Temperature tracking
- Provided as an all-in-one Docker image (but can be installed manually)
- Configurable Alerting/Notifications via Webhooks
- (Future) Hard Drive performance testing & tracking

# Getting Started

## RAID/Virtual Drives

Scrutiny uses `smartctl --scan` to detect devices/drives.

- All RAID controllers supported by `smartctl` are automatically supported by Scrutiny.
    - While some RAID controllers support passing through the underlying SMART data to `smartctl` others do not.
    - In some cases `--scan` does not correctly detect the device type, returning [incomplete SMART data](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/45).
    Scrutiny supports overriding detected device type via the config file: see [example.collector.yaml](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/example.collector.yaml)
- If you use docker, you **must** pass though the RAID virtual disk to the container using `--device` (see below)
    - This device may be in `/dev/*` or `/dev/bus/*`.
    - If you're unsure, run `smartctl --scan` on your host, and pass all listed devices to the container.

See [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_DEVICE_COLLECTOR.md](./docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_DEVICE_COLLECTOR.md) for help

## Docker

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Using `latest-` tags is dangerous as it can update your image without warning. It is a best practice to pin a specific version. scrutiny pushes releases with semver tags,
> so you can use tags like `v0.8.2-omnibus`, `v0.8-web`, `v0-collector`, etc. For a list of all image tags see
> [scrutiny package versions](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/pkgs/container/scrutiny/versions?filters%5Bversion_type%5D=tagged)

If you're using Docker, getting started is as simple as running the following command:

> See [docker/example.omnibus.docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/docker/example.omnibus.docker-compose.yml) for a docker-compose file.

```bash
docker run -p 8080:8080 -p 8086:8086 --restart unless-stopped \
  -v `pwd`/scrutiny:/opt/scrutiny/config \
  -v `pwd`/influxdb2:/opt/scrutiny/influxdb \
  -v /run/udev:/run/udev:ro \
  --cap-add SYS_RAWIO \
  --device=/dev/sda \
  --device=/dev/sdb \
  --name scrutiny \
  ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-omnibus
```

- `/run/udev` is necessary to provide the Scrutiny collector with access to your device metadata
- `--cap-add SYS_RAWIO` is necessary to allow `smartctl` permission to query your device SMART data
    - NOTE: If you have **NVMe** drives, you must add `--cap-add SYS_ADMIN` as well. See issue [#26](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/26#issuecomment-696817130)
- `--device` entries are required to ensure that your hard disk devices are accessible within the container.
- `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-omnibus` is a omnibus image, containing both the webapp server (frontend & api) as well as the S.M.A.R.T metric collector. (see below)

### Hub/Spoke Deployment

In addition to the Omnibus image (available under the `latest` tag) you can deploy in Hub/Spoke mode, which requires 3
other Docker images:

- `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-collector` - Contains the Scrutiny data collector, `smartctl` binary and cron-like
  scheduler. You can run one collector on each server.
- `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-web` - Contains the Web UI and API. Only one container necessary
- `influxdb:2.2` - InfluxDB image, used by the Web container to persist SMART data. Only one container necessary
  See [docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_INFLUXDB.md](./docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_INFLUXDB.md)

> See [docker/example.hubspoke.docker-compose.yml](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/docker/example.hubspoke.docker-compose.yml) for a docker-compose file.

```bash
docker run -p 8086:8086 --restart unless-stopped \
  -v `pwd`/influxdb2:/var/lib/influxdb2 \
  --name scrutiny-influxdb \
  influxdb:2.2

docker run -p 8080:8080 --restart unless-stopped \
  -v `pwd`/scrutiny:/opt/scrutiny/config \
  --name scrutiny-web \
  ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-web

docker run --restart unless-stopped \
  -v /run/udev:/run/udev:ro \
  --cap-add SYS_RAWIO \
  --device=/dev/sda \
  --device=/dev/sdb \
  -e COLLECTOR_API_ENDPOINT=http://SCRUTINY_WEB_IPADDRESS:8080 \
  --name scrutiny-collector \
  ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-collector
```

## Manual Installation (without-Docker)

While the easiest way to get started with [Scrutiny is using Docker](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny#docker),
it is possible to run it manually without much work. You can even mix and match, using Docker for one component and
a manual installation for the other.

See [docs/INSTALL_MANUAL.md](docs/INSTALL_MANUAL.md) for instructions.

## Usage

Once scrutiny is running, you can open your browser to `http://localhost:8080` and take a look at the dashboard.

If you're using the omnibus image, the collector should already have run, and your dashboard should be populate with every
drive that Scrutiny detected. The collector is configured to run once a day, but you can trigger it manually by running the command below.

For users of the docker Hub/Spoke deployment or manual install: initially the dashboard will be empty.
After the first collector run, you'll be greeted with a list of all your hard drives and their current smart status.

```bash
docker exec scrutiny /opt/scrutiny/bin/scrutiny-collector-metrics run
```

# Configuration
By default Scrutiny looks for its YAML configuration files in `/opt/scrutiny/config`

There are two configuration files available:

- Webapp/API config via `scrutiny.yaml` - [example.scrutiny.yaml](example.scrutiny.yaml).
- Collector config via `collector.yaml` - [example.collector.yaml](example.collector.yaml).

Neither file is required, however if provided, it allows you to configure how Scrutiny functions.

## Cron Schedule
Unfortunately the Cron schedule cannot be configured via the `collector.yaml` (as the collector binary needs to be trigged by a scheduler/cron).
However, if you are using the official `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-collector` or `ghcr.io/analogj/scrutiny:latest-omnibus` docker images,
you can use the `COLLECTOR_CRON_SCHEDULE` environmental variable to override the default cron schedule (daily @ midnight - `0 0 * * *`).

`docker run -e COLLECTOR_CRON_SCHEDULE="0 0 * * *" ...`

## Notifications

Scrutiny supports sending SMART device failure notifications via the following services:
- Custom Script (data provided via environmental variables)
- Email
- Webhooks
- Discord
- Gotify
- Hangouts
- IFTTT
- Join
- Mattermost
- ntfy
- Pushbullet
- Pushover
- Slack
- Teams
- Telegram
- Tulip

Check the `notify.urls` section of [example.scrutiny.yml](example.scrutiny.yaml) for examples.

For more information and troubleshooting, see the [TROUBLESHOOTING_NOTIFICATIONS.md](./docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_NOTIFICATIONS.md) file

### Testing Notifications

You can test that your notifications are configured correctly by posting an empty payload to the notifications health check API.

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/api/health/notify
```

# Debug mode & Log Files
Scrutiny provides various methods to change the log level to debug and generate log files.

## Web Server/API

You can use environmental variables to enable debug logging and/or log files for the web server:

```bash
DEBUG=true
SCRUTINY_LOG_FILE=/tmp/web.log
```

You can configure the log level and log file in the config file:

```yml
log:
  file: '/tmp/web.log'
  level: DEBUG
```

Or if you're not using docker, you can pass CLI arguments to the web server during startup:

```bash
scrutiny start --debug --log-file /tmp/web.log
```

## Collector

You can use environmental variables to enable debug logging and/or log files for the collector:

```bash
DEBUG=true
COLLECTOR_LOG_FILE=/tmp/collector.log
```

Or if you're not using docker, you can pass CLI arguments to the collector during startup:

```bash
scrutiny-collector-metrics run --debug --log-file /tmp/collector.log
```

# Supported Architectures

| Architecture Name | Binaries | Docker |
| --- | --- | --- |
| linux-amd64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| linux-arm-5 | :white_check_mark: |  |
| linux-arm-6 | :white_check_mark: |  |
| linux-arm-7 | :white_check_mark: | web/collector only. see [#236](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/236)  |
| linux-arm64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| freebsd-amd64 | :white_check_mark: |  |
| macos-amd64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| macos-arm64 | :white_check_mark: | :white_check_mark: |
| windows-amd64 | :white_check_mark: | WIP, see [#15](https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/issues/15) |
| windows-arm64 | :white_check_mark: |  |


# Contributing

Please see the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for instructions for how to develop and contribute to the scrutiny codebase.

Work your magic and then submit a pull request. We love pull requests!

If you find the documentation lacking, help us out and update this README.md. If you don't have the time to work on Scrutiny, but found something we should know about, please submit an issue.

# Versioning

We use SemVer for versioning. For the versions available, see the tags on this repository.

# Authors

* Jason Kulatunga - Initial Development - [@AnalogJ](https://github.com/AnalogJ/)
* Aram Akhavan - Maintenence - [@kaysond](https://github.com/kaysond/)

# Licenses

- MIT
- Logo: [Glasses by matias porta lezcano](https://thenounproject.com/term/glasses/775232)

# Sponsors

Scrutiny is only possible with the help of my [Github Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/).

[![](docs/sponsors.png)](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/)

They read a simple [reddit announcement post](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/) and decided to trust & finance
 a developer they've never met. It's an exciting and incredibly humbling experience.

If you found Scrutiny valuable, please consider [supporting my work](https://github.com/sponsors/AnalogJ/)
