docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_DOCKER.md, before:

# Docker Images `master-omnibus` vs `latest`

> TL;DR; The `master-omnibus` and `latest` tags are almost semantically identical, as I follow a `golden master` 
development process. However if you want to ensure you're only using the latest release, you can change to `latest`

The CI script used to orchestrate the docker image builds can be found here: https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/.github/workflows/docker-build.yaml#L166-L184

In general Scrutiny follows a `golden master` development process, which means that the `master` branch is not directly updated (unless its for documentation changes), 
instead development is done in a feature branch, or committed to the `beta` branch. 

As development progresses, and we're satisfied that a feature is complete, and the quality is acceptable, 
I merge the changes to `master` and trigger the creation of a new release -- ie, when master is updated, a new release
is almost immediately created (and tagged with `latest`)

So changing from `master-omnibus -> latest` will be the same thing for all intents and purposes. 

> NOTE: Previously, there was a `automated cron build` that ran on the `master` and `beta` branches. 
They used to trigger a `nightly` build, even if nothing has changed on the branch. This has a couple of benefits, but one is to 
ensure that there's no broken external dependencies in our (unchanged) code. This `nightly` build no longer updates the `master-omnibus` tag. 

# Running Docker `rootless`

To avoid that the container(s) restart when you installed Docker as `rootless` you need to isssue the following commands to allow the session to stay alive even after you close your (SSH) sesssion:

`sudo loginctl enable-linger $(whoami)`

`systemctl --user enable docker`

Commit message:

Update docker builds (#901)
Closes #895 #896

* dont build every master commit
* push latest tags with releases
* update docs accordingly
* bump action versions

docs/TROUBLESHOOTING_DOCKER.md, after:

# Docker Images `latest` vs `nightly`

> TL;DR; The `latest-omnibus`, `latest-collector`, and `latest-web` tags point to the most recent release. (`latest` points to `latest-omnibus`)
> The `nightly-omnibus`, `nightly-collector`, and `nightly-web` tags point to builds that are generated every night from the latest commit on the `master` branch.

The CD scripts used to orchestrate the docker image builds can be found here:
* https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/.github/workflows/docker-build.yaml
* https://github.com/AnalogJ/scrutiny/blob/master/.github/workflows/docker-nightly.yaml

In general scrutiny follows a feature branch development process, which means that the `master` branch should ideally always be free of bugs 
This is driven by the requirement that every PR be reviewed and pass all tests.  Unfortunately, bugs do make it through, especially because of the
enormous number of hard drives that scrutiny must support.. 

This means that while the nightly builds should have the latest features and bug fixes, there may be things that sneak through. Unless you need a particular
feature or bug fix, we recommend sticking to releases. Also note that using `latest` tags is generally considered a bad practice; pin a specific version instead.

# Running Docker `rootless`

To avoid that the container(s) restart when you installed Docker as `rootless` you need to isssue the following commands to allow the session to stay alive even after you close your (SSH) sesssion:

`sudo loginctl enable-linger $(whoami)`

`systemctl --user enable docker`
